#summary Box layout.
#sidebar Tutorial

= Introduction =

Box layout panels are used to arrange widgets sequentially: horizontal box layout panels arrange out their children horizontally from left to right, and vertical box layout panels arrange their children from top to bottom.

The box layout panels support a number of options that allow a caller to customize the arrangement of child widgets:

  * `spacing` - the amount of space the box layout panel inserts between widgets.
  * `horizontalAlignment` - how the box layout panel aligns widgets on the x-axis.
  * `verticalAlignment` - how the box layout panel aligns widgets on the y-axis.
  * `fill` - whether or not the box layout panel should size all widgets to fill the available space; if `true`, horizontal box layout panels will make all widgets the same height, and vertical box layout panels will make all widgets the same width.
  * `weight` - this option indicates how box layout panels distribute remaining empty space among its children. Weighted widgets grow and shrink to fit their given space. Widgets with larger weight values will be made larger than the widgets with lower weight values, at the ratio determined by the two widgets. The actual value of weight is not relevant unless there are other weighted widgets within the same box layout panel. 

= Details =

The basic syntax of a box layout is as follows:

{{{
<m:HBox>
	<!-- horizontal widgets -->
</m:HBox>

<m:VBox>
	<!-- vertical widgets -->
</m:VBox>
}}}

The HBox layout panel is used to create a horizontal oriented box. Each widget placed in the HBox will be placed horizontally in a row. The VBox layout panel is used to create a vertically oriented box. Added widgets will be placed underneath each other in a column.

There us also the generic Box layout panel which defaults to horizontal orientation, meaning it is equivalent to the HBox. However you can use the `orientation` property to control the orientation of Box layout panel. You can set this attribute to the value `HORIZONTAL` to create a horizontal box and `VERTICAL` to create a vertical box.

Thus, the two lines below are equivalent:

{{{
<m:VBox></m:VBox>

<m:Box orientation="VERTICAL"></m:Box>
}}}

== Example 1 ==

{{{
<ui:UiBinder xmlns:ui='urn:ui:com.google.gwt.uibinder'
	xmlns:g='urn:import:com.google.gwt.user.client.ui' xmlns:m='urn:import:gwt.mosaic.client.ui'>

	<m:VBox>
		<m:Button>Yes</m:Button>
		<m:Button>No</m:Button>
		<m:Button>Maybe</m:Button>
	</m:VBox>

</ui:UiBinder>
}}}

[http://gwt-mosaic.googlecode.com/svn/wiki/screenshots/BoxLayoutsE1.png Screenshot]

The three buttons here are oriented vertically as was indicated by the box layout panel. To change the buttons so that they are oriented horizontally, all you need to do is change the VBox widget to a HBox element.