#summary Data binding library & GWT data-aware widgets.
#sidebar TableOfContents

= Introduction =

The data dinding library contains classes and interfaces that provide basic data access. The library contains also a few widgets (so far: DBTextBox, DBLabel, DBListBox and DBLookupListBox) capable of accessing (database) data.

The design follows the principles of the DataExpress library used in JBuilder, and the DB related classes in Delphi.

= Details =

The data dinding library includes functionality covering the three main phases of data handling:

<ul>
<li>Providing: functionality to obtain data and manage local data sets.</li>
<li>Manipulation: navigation and editing of the data locally.</li>
<li>Resolving: functionality for the updating of the data from the local data sets back to the original source of the data.</li>
</ul>

The [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-mosaic/source/browse/trunk/src/org/gwt/mosaic2g/db/client/DataSet.java DataSet] interface is the corner stone of the library. It provides a cursor for accessing and navigating table data. Manages a list in memory to temporarily store a new inserted row, or changes to the current row. Multiple data-aware widgets can be bound to (through a [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-mosaic/source/browse/trunk/src/org/gwt/mosaic2g/db/client/DataSource.java DataSource] object) and synchronized with the same _DataSet_.

The [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-mosaic/source/browse/trunk/src/org/gwt/mosaic2g/db/client/ListStoreDataSet.java ListStoreDataSet] and [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-mosaic/source/browse/trunk/src/org/gwt/mosaic2g/db/client/BeanStoreDataSet.java BeanStoreDataSet] are only availbale so far implementors of _DataSet_. Both extend [http://code.google.com/p/gwt-mosaic/source/browse/trunk/src/org/gwt/mosaic2g/db/client/AbstractDataSet.java AbstractDataSet] which is an almost complete abstract implementation of _DataSet_.