#summary WindowPanel tutorial.

= Introduction =

A WindowPanel is a GWT PopupPanel that has decorations such as a border, a title, and supports image buttons that close or maximize the window. 

= Creating and showing window panels =

== Simple WindowPanel Example ==

This WindowPanel example displays an untitled WindowPanel containing a label. The WindowPanel would be displayed in the upper left of the browser's content area (it can be displayed in other parts of the browser's content area, as shown in a later example).

{{{
import org.gwt.mosaic.ui.client.WindowPanel;

import com.google.gwt.core.client.EntryPoint;
import com.google.gwt.user.client.ui.Button;
import com.google.gwt.user.client.ui.ClickListener;
import com.google.gwt.user.client.ui.Label;
import com.google.gwt.user.client.ui.RootPanel;
import com.google.gwt.user.client.ui.Widget;

public class Main implements EntryPoint {

  private void createWindowPanel() {
    WindowPanel w = new WindowPanel();
    w.setWidget(new Label("bonbon"));
    w.setPixelSize(100, 100);
    w.show();
  }

  public void onModuleLoad() {
    RootPanel.get().add(new Button("Create WindowPanel", new ClickListener() {
      public void onClick(Widget sender) {
        createWindowPanel();
      }
    }));
  }

}
}}}

 * `WindowPanel w = new WindowPanel()` This constructs a WindowPanel, which is a popup panel that can contain widgets you choose to put in it. At this stage of execution the WindowPanel is not yet visible to the user.
 * `w.setWidget(new Label("bonbon"))` This statement adds a label to the WindowPanel.
 * `w.setPixelSize(100, 100)` This statement sets the size of the WindowPanel.
 * `w.show()` This statement makes the WindowPanel visible.